It's important to maintain a State Store for a state full stream processing
because the state is basically
the intermediary object that you will want to retrieve later.
For the State Store,
you can use in-memory hashmap,
Hadoop Distributed File System,
Cassandra, AWS, DynamoDB, etc.
Although you can use in-memory hashmap,
using a reliable external State Stores
is highly recommended so that you can read the data later.
In this concept, we'll take a deep dive to understand how a State Store has been
internally implemented in structured streaming as of the 2.3 version.
In the previous lesson,
we talked about how there was
an inefficient design for state management in Spark streaming.
Now that State Store has been implemented in Spark structured streaming,
even when the failure occurs in the driver or the executor,
users can recover the state of
stateful stream processing from the point right before the failure.
This is a quick walk through on the code that show the checkpoint and location.
Everything is the same,
you'll initialize a Spark session.
You get a builder,
appName, and then get0rCreate.
You're going to be reading from a socket,
and the host is our local host,
and the port is anything you can configure to,
preferably, the ones that are not open yet.
I'm going to use the column-column value and do a select on it.
When you write this query,
writeStream out to a parquet,
you're going to use an option called checkpointLocation,
and you're going to save to a location that you desire.
One thing to note is that this checkpointLocation
has to be a path in an Hadoop compatible file system,
which means it's distributed.
So it cannot be saved to your C drive or your users folder,
and this will actually start the execution of the query.
This whole code here returns
a streaming query object which is to handle a continuous running execution.
Right now unfortunately, this code will not run because we don't have
a Hadoop compatible file system in our workspace.
Then you have another query that you can write out to a console,
and this is a time.sleep that I put in
so that we have two seconds in between our generation.
This means it's going to wait for termination.
The state management for a structure streaming is now decoupled from
metadata checkpointing and is not part of Spark jobs or tasks anymore.
Which means Spark applications will not try to save state unnecessarily.
It is asynchronous to add the execution
now before it used to be synchronous and cause problems.
So even though we can't run this code because
the workspace does not support distributed file system,
but you can note that at your job,
you should have a distributed file system that allows checkpointing.
When you do, you can use this option,
checkpointLocation to save your checkpoints.